Added Supported Commands and Custom Command Execution page (#238)
valkey-io/valkey-glide-docs: src/content/docs/commands/supported-commands.mdx

GLIDE supports a wide range of Valkey commands as first-class client methods. Below is a list of Valkey commands that are currently supported by GLIDE's clients.

:::note
Unsupported commands can still be executed using the [`execute_command`](/how-to/execute-custom-commands) method.
:::

## Available Commands

<SupportedCommands />

## Planned Commands

The following commands are planned for a future GLIDE release:

* `SAVE`, `BGSAVE`, `BGREWRITEAOF`: [#6095](https://github.com/valkey-io/valkey-glide/issues/6095)
* `MIGRATE`: Core clients does not support multi-keys option [#5994](https://github.com/valkey-io/valkey-glide/issues/5994)
* `MONITOR`: [#5978](https://github.com/valkey-io/valkey-glide/issues/5978)
* `REPLICAOF`, `FAILOVER`: [#6207](https://github.com/valkey-io/valkey-glide/issues/6207)
* `LATENCY HISTORY`, `LATENCY LATEST`, `LATENCY RESET`: [#5958](https://github.com/valkey-io/valkey-glide/pull/5958)
* `MEMORY DOCTOR`, `MEMORY MALLOC-STATS`, `MEMORY PURGE`, `MEMORY STATS`: [#5986](https://github.com/valkey-io/valkey-glide/pull/5986)
* `CLIENT CACHING`, `CLIENT TRACKING`, `CLIENT TRACKINGINFO`: [#5961](https://github.com/valkey-io/valkey-glide/issues/5961)

> * `PSYNC`, `SHUTDOWN`: [#6010](https://github.com/valkey-io/valkey-glide/issues/6010)

Reviewer: What is the plan for updating these as the commands are implemented? Is that something that your doc agents are supposed to handle?

What about when we add a new command to the scope for a future relase – what is the process for ensuring that this page gets updated?

Author: I imagine the workflow to be a mix of both automated and human updates. Something like:
1. Scope defined for a new release.
2. Maintainer update this section with the new scope.
3. Agent update this doc based on commits pushed to the repo.

@yipin-chen Thoughts?

## Internal Commands

The following commands are used internally by GLIDE clients during connection setup, reconnection, and session management.

> They are not exposed as standalone methods but are automatically handled by the clients.

Reviewer: Maybe a synonym for standalone might avoid any potential standalone vs cluster confusion – public, perhaps?

**Connection & authentication**

* `AUTH` — Handled via connection configuration; re-sent automatically on reconnect
* `HELLO` — Used internally for RESP3 protocol negotiation and embedded authentication
* `SELECT` — Applied automatically based on configured database ID; re-sent on reconnect

**Client identification**

* `CLIENT SETINFO` — Automatically sets library name and version on every connection
* `CLIENT SETNAME` — Used internally to name management connections

**Incompatible with multiplexed connections**

* `CLIENT REPLY` — Would break the multiplexed response protocol
* `CLIENT UNBLOCK` — Requires internal connection/client IDs not exposed to users

**Replication protocol**

> * `PSYNC`, `REPLCONF` — Internal replication commands; not applicable to client usage

Reviewer: I thought there was a Freshworks PR to expose the `PSYNC` command. Has that been removed?

## Tracked or Known Command Gaps

> These commands are tracked or known to be not available in one or more clients. Until they land, you can use the [`execute_command`](/how-to/execute-custom-commands) method to run them directly.

Reviewer: What is the difference between "tracked" and "known to be not available"?

Author: Tracked meant that they have a github issues created. Known to be not available means otherwise. Basically the team is aware that they have not been implemented. A community member could take this on.

That said, I guess ALL N/A commands should be tracked.

### Pending Cross-Client Porting

Some commands commands have not been implemented across all client yet.

| Command                 | Available In                 |
| ----------------------- | ---------------------------- |
| `CLIENT SETNAME`        | Go                           |
| `PUBSUB NUMSUB`         | Python, Node.js, Go, C#, PHP |
| `CLUSTER ADDSLOTSRANGE` | Java                         |
| `CLUSTER DELSLOTSRANGE` | Java                         |
| `CLUSTER LINKS`         | Java, Go                     |
| `CLUSTER MYSHARDID`     | Java, Go                     |
| `SPUBLISH`              | Python, Node.js, Java        |

> | `WAITAOF`               | Java, C#                     |

Reviewer: Are there corresponding issues for all of these? If so, should there be? Would be nice to be able to link them here? Would esp help if someone wanted to implement a missing one.

Author: We currently do not have tickets for these commands.

### New Valkey Commands

Recently introduced by Valkey and not yet implemented in any client.

| Command                | Introduced In | Tracking                                                       |
| ---------------------- | ------------- | -------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `CLIENT IMPORT-SOURCE` | Valkey 8.1    | N/A                                                            |
| `COMMANDLOG`           | Valkey 8.1    | N/A                                                            |
| `COMMANDLOG GET`       | Valkey 8.1    | N/A                                                            |
| `COMMANDLOG LEN`       | Valkey 8.1    | N/A                                                            |
| `COMMANDLOG RESET`     | Valkey 8.1    | N/A                                                            |
| `DELIFEQ`              | Valkey 9.0    | [#6146](https://github.com/valkey-io/valkey-glide/issues/6146) |
| `CLUSTERSCAN`          | Valkey 9.1    | N/A                                                            |
| `HGETDEL`              | Valkey 9.1    | [#6145](https://github.com/valkey-io/valkey-glide/issues/6145) |

> | `MSETEX`               | Valkey 9.1    | [#6152](https://github.com/valkey-io/valkey-glide/issues/6152) |

Reviewer: Similarly, I think it would make sense to add issues for all these and link them here.

| Deprecated Command     | Deprecated In | Recommended Alternative       |
| ---------------------- | ------------- | ----------------------------- |
| `HMSET`                | 4.0.0         | `HSET`                        |
| `SLAVEOF`              | 5.0.0         | `REPLICAOF`                   |
| `GEORADIUS`            | 6.2.0         | `GEOSEARCH`                   |
| `GEORADIUSBYMEMBER`    | 6.2.0         | `GEOSEARCH`                   |
| `GEORADIUS_RO`         | 6.2.0         | `GEOSEARCH`                   |
| `GEORADIUSBYMEMBER_RO` | 6.2.0         | `GEOSEARCH`                   |
| `RPOPLPUSH`            | 6.2.0         | `LMOVE`                       |
| `BRPOPLPUSH`           | 6.2.0         | `BLMOVE`                      |
| `PSETEX`               | —             | `SET` with the `PX` option    |
| `CLUSTER SLAVES`       | —             | `CLUSTER REPLICAS`            |
| `CLUSTER SLOTS`        | —             | `CLUSTER SHARDS`              |
| `QUIT`                 | —             | Close the connection / client |

> | `SYNC`                 | —             | `PSYNC`                       |

Reviewer: Why is the "Deprecated In" column empty for some of these?

Author: It means we do not have information on when they were deprecated. Although I supposed for GLIDE users this information is not that useful.

Author: Removed the version column

## Commands Available Through Options

Some commands are not exposed as standalone methods because their behavior is fully covered by options on a more general command. Instead of a dedicated method, use the alternative shown below.

| Command  | Use Instead                                    |
| -------- | ---------------------------------------------- |
| `GETSET` | `SET` with the `GET` / return-old-value option |
| `SETEX`  | `SET` with the `EX` (expiry) option            |
| `SETNX`  | `SET` with the `NX` (not-exists) option        |
| `SUBSTR` | `GETRANGE`                                     |

## Administrative and Operational Commands

Some administrative, introspection, and debugging commands are generally not exposed as first-class client methods. Many are server-management operations whose behavior is better handled by operators or the deployment platform.

Where access is needed, use the [`execute_command`](/how-to/execute-custom-commands) method.

This includes command families such as:

* **Cluster management** — `CLUSTER ADDSLOTS`, `CLUSTER FORGET`, `CLUSTER MEET`, `CLUSTER SETSLOT`, and related slot/node-management subcommands

> * **Server memory** — `MEMORY`, `MEMORY DOCTOR`, `MEMORY PURGE`, `MEMORY STATS`, `MEMORY USAGE`, `MEMORY MALLOC-STATS`

Reviewer: There is an existing Go PR from Freshworks to add some `MEMORY` commands, and I will be implementing them for other clients in the coming days, so I don't think this is accurate. Might be correct to add them to the missing commands section for C# and PHP though

Author: On second thoughts, I'm going to remove this section. We already covers this idea already in "Internal Commands" sections.

> * **Introspection & logs** — `COMMAND` (and `COUNT`/`INFO`/`GETKEYS`/`DOCS`/`LIST`), `SLOWLOG`, `LATENCY`

Reviewer: Similarly, I am in the process of implementing `LATENCY` commands for all main clients. Missing in PHP and C#. We should raise issues for these and link above?

> * **Server modules** — `MODULE`, `MODULE LIST`, `MODULE LOAD`, `MODULE UNLOAD`

Reviewer: There is an existing PR to add these commands in C#: https://github.com/valkey-io/valkey-glide-csharp/issues/361. And it don't see any reason why we might not want to add this to other clients?

* **Debugging** — `DEBUG`, `JSON.DEBUG`, `FT._DEBUG`, `SCRIPT DEBUG`

> * **Other operational** — `SHUTDOWN`, `MONITOR`, `ACL`, `REPLICAOF`, `FAILOVER`

Reviewer: Both `REPLICAOF` and `FAILOVER` are being implemented for all 4 main clients right now. Missing for C# and PHP though.

:::note
Unsupported commands can still be executed using the [`execute_command`](/how-to/execute-custom-commands) method.
:::

### Deprecated Commands

The following commands are deprecated by Valkey and are not planned for implementation in GLIDE. Consider using their recommended alternatives instead.

| Command                | Alternative                   |
| ---------------------- | ----------------------------- |
| `BRPOPLPUSH`           | `BLMOVE`                      |
| `CLUSTER SLAVES`       | `CLUSTER REPLICAS`            |
| `CLUSTER SLOTS`        | `CLUSTER SHARDS`              |
| `GEORADIUS`            | `GEOSEARCH`                   |
| `GEORADIUSBYMEMBER`    | `GEOSEARCH`                   |
| `GEORADIUSBYMEMBER_RO` | `GEOSEARCH`                   |
| `GEORADIUS_RO`         | `GEOSEARCH`                   |
| `HMSET`                | `HSET`                        |
| `QUIT`                 | Close the connection / client |
| `RPOPLPUSH`            | `LMOVE`                       |
| `SLAVEOF`              | `REPLICAOF`                   |
| `SYNC`                 | `PSYNC`                       |

### Incompatible Commands

> These commands are incompatible with GLIDE's architecture and will not be implemented.

Reviewer 2: We should avoid wording that looks like we will never implement this
```suggestion
These commands are incompatible with current GLIDE's core architecture and will they are not supported at the moment.  If you have an use case that you need to use such commands. Please take a look at the issue XYZ
```

Author: Addressed in [19e4411](https://github.com/valkey-io/valkey-glide-docs/pull/238/commits/19e44110a851ff19fc1e5edf66b34deecdca8c35)

| Command          | Reason                                                                                                                              |
| ---------------- | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `CLIENT REPLY`   | Would break the multiplexed response protocol                                                                                       |
| `CLIENT UNBLOCK` | Requires internal connection/client IDs not exposed to users                                                                        |
| `DEBUG`          | Admin/developer debugging command; will not be exposed                                                                              |

> | `DISCARD`        | Interactive transactions not supported. GLIDE submits transactions as atomic batches and interactive transactions are not supported |

Reviewer 2: Add a note that we support transaction/pipeline through batches and link to the doc if we have one

Author: Addressed in [19e4411](https://github.com/valkey-io/valkey-glide-docs/pull/238/commits/19e44110a851ff19fc1e5edf66b34deecdca8c35)
